---
layout: post
title: 10 Tips "For Successful Public Speaking"
date: 2022-01-28
categories: blog
tags: [Commonly used]
description: 10 Tips "For Successful Public Speaking"
---

Feeling some nervousness before giving a speech is natural and even beneficial. But too much nervousness can be detrimental. Here are some proven tips on how to control your butterflies and give better presentations:

1. Know your material

Pick a topic you intersted in. Know more about it than you include in your speech.


2. Practice. Practice. Practice!

Rehearse out loud with all equipment you plan on using. Revise as necessary


3. Know the audience.

Greet some of the audience member as they arrive. It's easier to speak to a group of friends than to strangers.

4. Know the room

Arrive early, walk around the speaking area and practice using the microphone and any visual aids.


5. Relax

Ease tension by doing exercises. Transform nervous energy into enthusiasm.


6. Visualize yourself giving your speech

Imagine yourself speaking, your voice loud, clear and confident. Visualize


7. Realize that people want you to succeed

Audiences want you to be interesting, stimulating, informative and entertaining. They don't want you fail.


8. Don't apologize

For any nervousness or problem - the audience probably never noticed it.


9. Concentrate on the massage - not the medium

Focus your attention away from your own anxieties and concentrate on your message and you audience.


10. Gain experience

Experience builds confidence, which is the key to effective speaking, A Toastmasters Club can provide the experience you need in a safe and friendly enviroment.
