---
layout: post
title: 2022 QE Exam Summary
date: 2022-06-13
categories: blog
tags: [Exam]
description: Summary about QE.
---

## DOR:

-1. objective function  the summation of bivariate function with a  knapsack constraint

develop a DP state, stage, recursion, value function

What if add another term $$x_n x_1$$

-2. what the relation between 

$$\min cx s.t. Ax \geq b$$ and $$\max cx  s.t. Ax \leq b$$  when these two LPs have finite optimal solutions.

In fact, they will have the same extreme point to reach the optimal value.

-3.  Convex function.

-4. Dual LP and surrogate relaxation.

-5. Lagrangian multiplier to solve $$x_1+ x_1x_2 + x_1x_2x_3 s.t.  x_1+x_2+x_3=c$$  when n how to extend the property.


## SOR:

1. two-dimensional simple random walk
Zn =Xn+Yn  Markov chain and simple walk.

$$P_{i,i+1},  P_{i,i-1}$$

$$P(Z_n=0)$$

$$P((X_30, Y_30)=(1,2))$$

2. $$M/G/1+ \infty$$ waiting space

binomial distribution when given poisson arrivals

the probability of first complete services before second arrives

M(t) indicates the number of customers finish the service by time t

E[M(t)]

$$M/M/1+ \infty$$ waiting space + abandonment rate for each waiting customer.

Q matrix

long-run average rate of abandonment rate

3. (s,S) policy


1） E[T] time between successive orders

2）lim_t\to\infty P(I(t)>x) the probability of inventory is larger than x in [s,S]. I think it should use Wald's theorem.

3）$$S_n = Y_1+\ldots+Y_n$$
$$P(S_n > S)$$  convolusion of exponential distribution

4) inventory holding cost

$$S-S_1,S-S,\ldots,S-S_n$$

expected cost in one cycle.

by revewal theorem $$\lim_{t\to\infty} E(t)/t$$ = E[cost in one cycle]/E[one cycle time]


## ES:

1. Use median to find a consistent estimator for \theta which is the mean of the expenontial distribution.

median $$T_1 = c \xi$$   

Find c.

mean T2, Asymptotic Relative Efficiency of Sample Mean and Median

2. uniform $$[0,\theta]$$

test statistic X_n for \theta. 

CR bound by fisher information 

$$n(\hat{\theta} - \theta)$$ Asymptotic distribution

CI shortest region

3. xi follows gamma distribution $$(2, \theta_i c_i)$$.  

linear combination of the unbiased estimator.

4. non parameter statistic  how to calculate E(f(x)), Var(f(x))

the bias in fact.

EDF: Empirical Distribution Function

the property of KDE to find the bandwidth.

5. linear regression with time series.

autoregression structure  $$u_i = \rho u_{i-1} + \epsilon_i$$

What is \beta?

Find $$\rho$$ by the estimator of $$\hat{u_i}$$.

