---
layout: post
title: Record what happened today
date: 2023-01-18
categories: Daily Life
tags: [Diary]
description:
---

In this diary, I will record what happened on 18/1/2023.

Take bus 11 to kung kau market. Then find the way to the community testing centres. It says disinfection time during 1.30 pm- 2 pm. When it is 2pm, I wait in line with booked sign. A man came to me, asked where am I going to? I said Chinese Mainland, then gave a note writing 150, TS(咽喉拭子).

Then get in the hall, there is a toll counter. You can use Octupus, wechat, alipay or cash to pay. After that, you get a receipt. With this receipt, you need go to another counter to register your information with your HKID and permit card.(This sister is so kind, and explained why HKID is needed.) Only having finished all these procedure, you finally get to the testing area. This man treat me very well, his did the test very lightly. 

Then I take the subway to Kuang Tung station. Near here, there is an apple store. (APM) Many people are experiencing these products. I go to the counter to ask how I can buy an iPad. Then a man tell me to wait in line near the wall where I don't notice just now. Then a young boy asked me what I need. After checking the stock of iPad, I asked him whether I can use the coupon. He tell me this coupon can only be used online. I didn't know that before, that is so bad, I waste my trip to the station.

After taking the subway to Cai Hung Station, I missed the exit. The correct one should be C1 and C2. In fact, I should learn the lesson from the experience going out the wrong exit, walking a long meaningless way. Then the bus 11 is near the exit. 

You should learn Cantonese, at least understand this language.